RHDEVDOCS-3752 Document Pipelines as code (#43308)
openshift/openshift-docs: cicd/pipelines/using-pipelines-as-code.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="using-pipelines-as-code"]
= Using Pipelines as Code
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: using-pipelines-as-code

toc::[]

:FeatureName: Pipelines as Code
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[role="_abstract"]
With {pac}, cluster administrators and users with the required privileges can define pipeline templates as part of source code Git repositories. When triggered by a source code push or a pull request for the configured Git repository, the feature runs the pipeline and reports the status.   

[id="pac-key-features"]
== Key features
{pac} supports the following features:

* Pull request status. When iterating over a pull request, the status and control run on the platform hosting the Git repository.

> * GitHub Checks API to set the status of a pipeline run, including rechecks.

Reviewer: IBM SG, parallelism. Please restate this so its structure parallels that of the other feature bullets and helps users avoid confusion about its meaning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* GitHub Checks API, which you can use to set the status of a pipeline run, including rechecks.
```

Reviewer: IBM SG: 
- You can introduce procedures with a sentence, an infinitive phrase, or a heading. Make list items grammatically parallel. For example, do not use a mix of phrases and sentences or a mix of passive and
active voice in the same list.
- Make sure that the elements of a sentence are parallel. Words, phrases, and clauses should be grammatically equal.

* GitHub pull request and commit events. 
* Pull request actions in comments, such as `/retest`.
* Git events filtering and a separate pipeline for each event.

> * Automatic task resolution in {pipelines-shortname} (local tasks, Tekton Hub, and remote URLs).

Reviewer: IBM SG, parentheses: Avoid inline parentheses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automatic task resolution in {pipelines-shortname}, which automatically resolves local tasks, Tekton Hub, and remote URLs.
```

> * Use of GitHub blobs and objects API for retrieving configurations.

Reviewer: IBM SG, parallelism. Please make the structure of this item match the others.

* Access Control List (ACL) over a GitHub organization, or using a Prow style `OWNER` file.

> * The `tkn-pac` plugin for the `tkn` CLI tool, which you can use to manage {pac} repositories and bootstrapping.

Reviewer: If possible, apply this user-focused wording ("which you can use to") to the other bullets in this list. It makes the list more meaningful.

:FeatureName: Pipelines as Code
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[role="_abstract"]
Pipelines as Code allows cluster administrators and users with necessary privileges to define pipeline templates as part of source code Git repositories. When triggered by source code push or a pull request for the configured Git repository, it runs the pipeline and reports status.  

[id="pac-key-features"]
== Key features
Pipelines as Code supports the following:

* Pull request status. When iterating over a pull request, the status and control is executed on the platform hosting the Git repository.
* GitHub Checks API to set the status of a pipeline run, including rechecks.
* GitHub Pull Request and Commit events. 
* Pull request actions in comments, such as `/retest`.
* Git events filtering, and separate pipeline for each event.
* Automatic task resolution in Pipelines (local tasks, Tekton Hub and remote URLs).
* Efficient use of GitHub blobs and objects API for retrieving configurations
* ACL over a GitHub organization, or using a Prow style `OWNER` file.
* The `tkn-pac` plugin for the `tkn` CLI tool, using which you can manage Pipelines as Code repositories and bootstrapping.

> * GitHub Application, GitHub Webhook, GitLab, Bitbucket Server, and Bitbucket Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* GitHub Application, GitHub Webhook, Bitbucket Server, and Bitbucket Cloud.
```

Gitlab will be out in next release of pac 0.6.x

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="using-pipelines-as-code"]

> = Using Pipelines as Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Using pipelines as code
```
Is PaC _really_ a proper noun? If so, keep it capitalized. Otherwise, if not, use sentence case and update elsewhere, as shown.

Author: Proper noun.

include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: using-pipelines-as-code

toc::[]

:FeatureName: Pipelines as Code
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[role="_abstract"]

> Pipelines as Code allows cluster administrators and users with necessary privileges to define pipeline templates as part of source code Git repositories. When triggered by source code push or a pull request for the configured Git repository, it runs the pipeline and reports status.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With Pipelines as Code, cluster administrators and users with necessary privileges can define pipeline templates as part of source code Git repositories. When triggered by source code push or a pull request for the configured Git repository, it runs the pipeline and reports status.  
```
- Per IBM SG, avoid giving software human characteristics with words like "allow". See the section on "Anthropomorphism": "Do not assign human characteristics to inanimate objects, which are incapable of human behaviors and emotions. As much as possible, focus technical information on users and their actions, not on a product and its actions."

[id="pac-key-features"]
== Key features

> {pac} supports the following features:

Reviewer: I would recommend rephrasing the following list to focus on the user's actions and goals. For example: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/47816#discussion_r924569869

Author: @rolfedh : While I agree that we write user stories and should emphasize user's actions, sometimes outlining the key features of a product can be beneficial while introducing the product or a component. For example, see [Pipelines - Key features](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cicd/pipelines/understanding-openshift-pipelines.html#op-key-features) and [GitOps - Key features](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cicd/gitops/understanding-openshift-gitops.html#key-features_understanding-openshift-gitops). In both occasions, the content was not written by me, and reviewed and approved.
If we are absolutely against outlining key features while introducing something, then I think we should create a separate JIRA task for that and weed out all such instances.
For this iteration of PaC docs, I would request you to agree on the key features, mostly because those features show how cleverly PaC automates many of the chores. Because of the emphasis of those features being automated capabilities, it is difficult to frame them in the form of a user-based action.

> Pipelines as Code supports the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pipelines as Code supports the following features:
```

* Pull request status. When iterating over a pull request, the status and control is executed on the platform hosting the Git repository.

> * GitHub Checks API to set the status of a pipeline run, including rechecks.

Author: No. I meant `Checks` API. See https://docs.github.com/en/rest/checks.

* GitHub Pull Request and Commit events. 
* Pull request actions in comments, such as `/retest`.

> * Git events filtering, and separate pipeline for each event.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Git events filtering, and a separate pipeline for each event.
```

> * Automatic task resolution in Pipelines (local tasks, Tekton Hub and remote URLs).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Automatic task resolution in Pipelines (local tasks, Tekton Hub, and remote URLs).
```
- Per IBM SG section on "Punctuation", use a comma to separate three or more items in a series.

* Efficient use of GitHub blobs and objects API for retrieving configurations

> * ACL over a GitHub organization, or using a Prow style `OWNER` file.

Reviewer 3: Has `ACL` already been defined in this topic? If not, then spell it out on first usage followed by a parenthetical with the abbreviation.

> * The `tkn-pac` plugin for the `tkn` CLI tool, using which you can manage Pipelines as Code repositories and bootstrapping.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The `tkn-pac` plugin for the `tkn` CLI tool, which you can use to manage Pipelines as Code repositories and bootstrapping.
```

> * GitHub Application, GitHub Webhook, GitLab, Bitbucket Server, and Bitbucket Cloud.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support for GitHub Application, GitHub Webhook, GitLab, Bitbucket Server, and Bitbucket Cloud.
```
Needs a phrase to make it parallel with the other list items.
